Yukigaoka
Kitagawa First
My first and last official match of junior high.
My team was creamed.
Our opponent was the King of the Court.
I swear I'll challenge him to a revenge match!
I made up my mind, and proceeded to Karasuno High School.
However...
Wh...
Why are you here?!
The heat flickers
Sweat glitters on my skin
Shouts echo and shoulders hit
We asked the sky through the open window
Haikyuu !!
what our summer would be like
Tell me, Mr. Future
Come on, come on, come on
The chance is there
Do it together
Everybody always wants to stand there,
make mistakes, get angry, and struggle
We'll never give up
We don't want it to end
I will continue on with my imagination
I want to struggle and fall and become stronger
I want to persevere, stand back up, do it again,
and never give up
Let me run
I will run to where my imagination leads me
Episode Two:
Karasuno High School Volleyball Team
Why?
Why is this guy at Karasuno?
No, maybe it's someone else?
What did you come here for?
It isn't as easy as it sounds!
I'll be the one still standing on the court at the end!
What have you been doing for the last three years?!
No, there's no doubt! It's him!
Kageyama Tobio!
You're that guy from last year.
Whatever your name is.
M-My name is Hinata Shouyou.
I doubt you would even remember a team you beat in the first round!
I remember you very well.
This guy has outstanding reflexes, jumping ability, and speed.
But he doesn't take advantage of these abilities at all.
What? You wanna fight?
You klutzy piece of shit!
D-Don't you make fun of me!
I know I got clobbered in that match,
but I won't lose next time!
That's what I came here prepared to do,
so why are you here?!
How can I kick your ass if we're on the same team?!
There are way more successful schools to choose from!
Why didn't you go to one of those instead?!
I applied to the best school in the prefecture.
But I didn't make it in.
You didn't make it?
But you're the King of the Court!
Don't...
call me that!
Huh?
Who knew that the setter from
Kitagawa First would choose us?
But the guy is cocky. I just know it.
Not again. Would you stop trying to intimidate everyone you see?
I-I would never do such a thing.
Hello!
Hey, hey, hey. What do you guys think—
Are you Kageyama?
Hello.
Glad to see you!
He's pretty darned tall.
First impression are key, Suga!
Blast him with your upperclassman prestige!
Tanaka, stop making faces.
Kageyama is slightly taller than them,
but these high schoolers are still kind of huge.
That's right! I'm here, at Karasuno.
Okay...
Hello!
How tall are you?
180 cm.
Oh...
You're a cocky one, aren't you?
Hello!
Huh?
Hey, it's you!
The shorty who wore number one!
Do you mean the other applicant named Hinata... is you?
I'm just a little surprised.
I see.
So both of you chose Karasuno!
Um...
We saw you guys play last year.
You're small and you were all over the place, but you had fight!
Thank you!
You can jump pretty high too.
But you really haven't grown much at all.
I may be small, but I can jump!
I'll become the ace of Karasuno, you'll see!
Come on.
You only just got here and you're already claiming ace position?
You've got some balls!
What's wrong with having high aspirations? Right?
I-I'll give it my best!
Now that you've announced that you're gonna be the ace, you better have improved.
Keep dragging your feet,
and you'll waste another three years.
Excuse me?
Why do you say things like that, Kageyama?
I did try my best...
Yukigaoka                  Kitagawa First
I did.
But don't make it sound like
everything I've done is for nothing!
Look, you guys. You do realize that you're not enemies anymore, right?
Volleyball brings people together—
I want you to play me!
Hey, Daichi is still talking to you!
Play you at what?
At volleyball! Duh!
How do you propose we play volleyball one-on-one?
Doing passes and stuff.
How do you win or lose at passing?
Listen, damn it!
You're getting noisy, volleyball team!
Ugh! The veep!
Principal!
Vice Principal!
You're not quarreling, I trust?
Not at all! This is what they call friendly rivalry. Right, guys?
We gotta behave ourselves,
'cause the veep wants us to misbehave.
Serve me the ball! I'll receive whatever you hit!
Hey!
I only received one serve from you last year.
With my face.
I've been practicing with all kinds of people!
I'm not the same guy I was last year!
Not the same as last year, huh?
I'm not the same guy I was last year either.
Now, now, you guys.
Enough freewheeling.
Are those first-years?
Chill out. Don't let him faze you.
I've trained like crazy with the old ladies' serves!
Here goes.
A jump serve?!
He only did normal ones last year!
I dunno if I could get that one either.
No girls' or old ladies' teams serve like this.
How is that not the same as last year?
One more.
Hey, knock that off.
It's a problem that they won't take orders from their team captain.
Fast reflexes!
He's facing the ball straight-on, ready to—
If this continues—
That was a toupée?
You didn't notice?
We all noticed it during the entrance ceremony.
You guys! Shut up!
You shut up, Tanaka!
Sawamura, can I have a moment?
Fortunately, we have the benefit of the doubt.
No apologies necessary.
But I want you to pretend you saw nothing.
You two, however...
It's your fault for not receiving it properly, you klutz.
"Not the same as last year"?
Don't make me laugh.
You're such a let-down. You suck!
You talk too much.
Hey.
I'd like you to listen to me.
I don't know what motivated you to come to Karasuno.
But you came here to win, didn't you?
Yes!
Of course.
Karasuno's team could compete with the best up until a few years ago.
It happened only once, but they went to nationals.
But now, we're only in the top eight in the prefecture.
We are neither weak nor strong.
Other schools call us the fallen champs.
The clipped crows.
I remember well when Karasuno competed in the spring national tournament.
I'd sometimes walk right past students from the nearby Karasuno High School
who were competing against the country's best teams in a huge gymnasium in Tokyo.
It gave me goosebumps.
We're going there one more time!
We're going to the same court as the Little Giant!
There are plenty
of high schools that treat going to nationals like a tentative dream.
You bas—I mean, you...
There's no need to worry.
I'm serious about going.
We need a united team to accomplish that.
And that's also why we don't want the Vice Principal's watching our every move.
Look, it isn't as though I'm telling you to be friends.
In junior high, you may've been adversaries separated by a net,
but I want you go get it into your heads that
you'll both be on the same side of the net now.
Is that understood?
I don't care how good you are.
Or how hard you intend to play.
Anyone who causes trouble for the team with petty rivalry...
is out!
I will not allow you to participate in practice
until you can demonstrate some team awareness!
Haikyuu !!
What?!
What's team awareness?!
How is it done?!
How should I know?!
P-Please let me in! Please let me play volleyball!
I'll get along with Kageyama, I swear!
Please!
You sure about this, Daichi?
We need more members.
Besides, only time can make a team.
I know that! However...
Hey! Outta the way!
I'm sorry for my behavior!
I'll play alongside him!
Please let me be on the team!
Be honest.
If I'm stuck working with him in a match,
I'd rather do every receive, spike, and set by myself.
What the hell is with you?!
Why are you actually being honest with me?
I'm good with that kind of thing.
Still,
in volleyball, you can't drop, carry, or touch the ball twice in a row.
How do you plan to play alone?
What's your damage?
Are you actually retarded or something?
Right!
Tanaka, follow up when you block!
Yes, sir!
There's a court and a ball within reach.
I hate being in the doghouse.
Dammit! There's no time for this!
I'm gonna get inside!
Did you find your team awareness?
I'm a force to be reckoned with!
That's reason enough to let me join their team!
Spoken like a true king—
Anyway, what're you going to do?
We'll challenge them to a two-on-two match.
If we win, we get to join.
If we work together, we'll look like teammates, like it or not.
That will speed things up.
Against the upperclassmen, you mean?
What if we lose?
We can't lose.
I'll make sure of that.
What? Is this guy serious?
Is this normal for him?
I want you to give your absolute best effort
to make sure you don't drag me down.
'Scuze me?!
No one would agree to that after being talked down to like that!
So what do you suggest?
Do you plan to keep watching from outside?
The only match I ever played in junior high was the one against your team.
We never had enough players to apply to tournaments until then.
And I had no place to play, so I always practiced in a corner of the gym or the hallway.
Hallway?
So when I stood in the middle of that huge gymnasium for my very first match ever,
it was like I had become the main character.
It was like, "whoa."
"Whoa"?
I wanted to stay there forever.
But only the strong...
Kitagawa First
Loses Just Barely
get to stay on the court.
So what's the plan?
You'll be turned away unless we go together.
If it means I can play volleyball,
I can endure anything for a little while!
I'll do my best not to look at you.
That way I can't see what a bastard you are!
You took the words right out of my mouth, you moron!
Excuse me.
Can I please get through?
Kiyoko! Thanks for all your hard work!
I'll carry that!
No, thanks. I'll carry it myself.
Kiyoko, you look lovely today.
I love it when she ignores me!
Good job!
Do you think they'll show up asking to be let join the team if they can beat us in a match?
Probably!
All they have to do is cool their heads and demonstrate how they've learned the error of their ways.
Captain!
We would like to challenge you!
Us versus you upperclassmen!
For real?
Three, two...
We'll prove that we can play together!
I heard a countdown.
I kinda like guys like them.
And if you lose?
We'll accept the penalty of your choice.
Hm...
Club Application
This should work.
Two other first-years are going to be joining us.
We'll have you play them, three-on-three.
It's a match we hold every year for our new members to see what they're like.
But three-on-three?
Who will be playing on our side?
Tanaka, I want you to be on their side on game day.
What? Me?
You said you kinda liked them.
I don't want to get dragged into their mess!
That's a shame. I really thought you were the only one capable of wrangling these delinquents.
If you insist!
I'll do it.
Happy to hear that?
So, in the event that you lose,
for the remainder of my time at this school,
Kageyama will not be allowed to play setter.
Huh?
Is that all?
A team can't win with a grandstanding, over-aggressive, egocentric setter.
What's the matter?
I'm not saying that your application will be rejected.
I'm sure you can easily handle other positions.
I'm a setter!
Then win.
You're here because you thought you could win without any help, right?
What about me? I'm here too!
The match is Saturday morning!
I'm here too, you know!
Listen up! Your upperclassman Tanaka here is gonna train the heck—
Got it?
Y'know... aren't you being a little hard on them?
You are being more strict than usual, Daichi.
Is there a special reason for that?
Dammit!
What? Are you upset because you're the only one who gets penalized?
Well, even if you're not a setter, I'm sure you could get a starting position and begin playing just like that.
Besides...
spikers are way cooler than setters!
They get to slam the ball.
You bastard!
The setter is the team's playmaker!
The setter is the one who has
the most contact with the ball!
It's the coolest position of all
because it makes you the ruler!
Huh?
You can't hit your precious spikes
without a setter to set you the ball!
But a setter's job is way too difficult, and it doesn't stand out.
Have you ever seen a huge tournament in person?
No.
You can't tell it from the angle you see on TV,
but if you watch from the end of the court,
you'll be able to see how fast the setter sets the ball.
It flies from one side of the court to the other!
Then the ball passes right in front of the opponent's blockers,
and you think, "Hey! Can he seriously hit that?!"
But there's a spiker ready to strike that ball.
And he smashes that sucker in!
R-Right.
The spiker really is cool, but it's the setter
who tricks the opponent into blocking and breaks the wall open for the spiker to get through!
The setter's job is difficult, cool, and awesome!
I understand that you want to be the setter.
Kageyama will not be allowed to play setter.
Damn!
What's his problem?!
We just have to win.
You looked confident enough
when you went to challenge them.
He's right. Don't let them shake you.
This guy won't be any help.
I just need to set for that second-year guy.
Hey! We have to work on your shitty receiving by Saturday!
Shitty? Anyway, we won't be able to use the gym.
Oh, yes.
I guess we really gotta start
morning practice at 7 AM, right?
What? Well, yeah. What got into you?
Oh, nothing.
Do you think the veep's toupée made it out alive?
Hey! No discussing that!
Tomorrow.
At 5 AM!
Don't be late.
That goes for you.
My bag! I forgot my bag!
Just what I was afraid of.
It's locked.
Okay, look for a window we can go through.
We'll get in trouble if we're spotted. Are you stupid?
Dang, 5 AM is a little tough.
Tanaka?!
Make sure to clear out by 7.
Tanaka!
Thank you!
What a great upperclassman I am!
You should show me some respect.
Yes, sir!
Again!
Okay! Let's start practicing!
You are being more strict than usual, Daichi.
Is there a special reason for that?
You guys saw them play last year.
Kageyama supposedly had exception ability for a junior-high student,
but he has almost nothing to
show for it. It needs to change.
His individualism will play out the same as in junior high.
He could drag down the team.
What sets the situation apart from junior high
is that Hinata is playing on the same team.
Hinata? Well, yeah. He is kind of like a raw mass of agility.
Yeah, but he isn't at his full potential.
He has extraordinary speed and reflexes, plus that jumping ability.
But he didn't have a setter in junior high.
Kageyama on the other hand wants a spiker fast enough to hit his sets.
Apart, they're incomplete,
but put them together...
Get them to work in combination...
and Karasuno will evolve by leaps and bounds!
Don't you agree?
Screw you! I'm going in first!
Tanaka's already inside, so you can't be first!
If that's what you think, then move!
Hey! There's no time—
We got a long way to go before combos come into play.
Ooh, the gym!
You were here yesterday.
So the Little Giant practiced in here, huh?
Okay!
Let's do this!
If I tell you this story,
I wonder if I can explain to you
my feelings
and the distance between us
Standing on an empty field
I breathe out into the night air
Countless times I swore that I would change
I stumbled and fell a lot,
but I swore I would laugh at the end
and not let my tears go to waste
There are so many dreams that can definitely come true
I always sat somewhere, downcast, dejected, depressed,
but still I decided I would fight,
and not let all my frustration go to waste
This is our revenge
Next Episode Preview
Damn, thanks to Hinata, this is a horrific start.
It's your fault for insisting on doing it all by yourself!
I'd rather do it all myself than work with you!
I'm telling you, that's the prob—
Hey, don't waste our early start on squabbling!
Yessir!
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
Episode Three:
A Formidable Ally
"A Formidable Ally."